---
title: "Managing rubies with chruby"
date: 2013-12-12 00:00 UTC
author: henrik
disable_comments: false
---

I've been using [rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv) and
[ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build) to manage my rubies for
the past two years, but I recently made the jump to
[chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby) and
[ruby-install](https://github.com/postmodern/ruby-install). So, why the switch?

## You don't need to care about patchlevels unless you want to

rbenv installs gems per ruby binary, so each patchlevel has its own set of
gems. Also, it has no support for fuzzy matching in `.ruby-version`
files. In practice, this means that whenever a project's `.ruby-version`
gets bumped up everyone working  on it has to upgrade. This means
updating ruby-build, building the new ruby and then re-installing all gems
for the new version (or using
[rbenv-default-gems](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-default-gems)).
This makes life way harder than it needs to be, and might come across as
bit insane to team members with little ruby experience.

In our experience, which patchlevel you're running in development rarely
matters. This is especially true when you're deploying to Heroku and can't
specify a patchlevel for production anyway.

With chruby you can specify `2.0.0-p353`, `2.0.0`, or even just `2.0` or
`1.9` in your `.ruby-version` and it will use the most recent ruby you have
installed that fits the bill.
Also, chruby shares the same set of gems across all patchlevels of the
same version, so you only need to re-install gems when you move to a new
version, e.g. from 1.9.3 to 2.0.0.

## ruby-install is easier to use

Unlike with ruby-build you don't need to update ruby-install every time there
is a new patchlevel release. Also, you don't need to concern yourself
with what patchlevel to get, running `ruby-install ruby` will simply get you
the latest stable release.

## Getting up and running

1. Install chruby and ruby-build. I recommend using
[Homebrew](http://brew.sh).

```bash
  brew install chruby ruby-install
```

Also, install ruby dependencies:

```bash
  brew install gdbm libffi libyaml openssl readline
```

Add these lines to your `~/.bash_profile` (or equivalent):

```bash
  source /usr/local/share/chruby/chruby.sh
  source /usr/local/share/chruby/auto.sh
```

Install the latest ruby (MRI):

```bash
  ruby-install ruby
```

Now, the `auto.sh` script we load in `.bash_profile` automatically enables whatever
ruby is defined in `.ruby-version` in the current or a parent directory.
So to use the chruby ruby by default just create a `~/.ruby-version` containing
`2.0.0` (or whatever you prefer).
